The GeForce RTX 4090 is an enthusiast-class graphics card by NVIDIA, launched on September 20th, 2022.
GRAPHICS PROCESSOR: AD102, CORES: 16384, TMUS:512, ROPS:176, MEMORY SIZE: 24 GB, MEMORY TYPE:GDDR6X, 
BUS WIDTH: 384 bit.
Built on the 5 nm process, and based on the AD102 graphics processor, in its AD102-300-A1 variant, the card supports DirectX 12 Ultimate. This ensures that all modern games will run on GeForce RTX 4090. Additionally, the DirectX 12 Ultimate capability guarantees support for hardware-raytracing, variable-rate shading and more, in upcoming video games. The AD102 graphics processor is a large chip with a die area of 608 mm² and 76,300 million transistors. Unlike the fully unlocked RTX TITAN Ada, which uses the same GPU but has all 18432 shaders enabled, NVIDIA has disabled some shading units on the GeForce RTX 4090 to reach the product's target shader count. It features 16384 shading units, 512 texture mapping units, and 176 ROPs. Also included are 512 tensor cores which help improve the speed of machine learning applications. The card also has 128 raytracing acceleration cores. NVIDIA has paired 24 GB GDDR6X memory with the GeForce RTX 4090, which are connected using a 384-bit memory interface. The GPU is operating at a frequency of 2235 MHz, which can be boosted up to 2520 MHz, memory is running at 1313 MHz (21 Gbps effective).
Being a triple-slot card, the NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4090 draws power from 1x 16-pin power connector, with power draw rated at 450 W maximum. Display outputs include: 1x HDMI 2.1, 3x DisplayPort 1.4a. GeForce RTX 4090 is connected to the rest of the system using a PCI-Express 4.0 x16 interface. The card's dimensions are 304 mm x 137 mm x 61 mm, and it features a triple-slot cooling solution. Its price at launch was 1599 US Dollars.